mitigate - make less severe.

operational risk - risk of loss in the result of: internal process, pleople, system, external events

comply - meet specific standards

diligence - careful or persistent work

thoroughness - being in regard to every detail.

CDD - Customer Due Dilligence - performing customer checks

onboarding - integration into organisation

due - adequate

pipeline - process of building, testing and deploying. Often associated with automatisation.

CI/CD pipeline - continuous - integration, delivery, deployment

operations specialist - takes care of IT infrastructure: severs, networks, hardware. Deploys and configures software apps

vague - unclear, imprecise, not clearly defined

exponent - a quantity representing the power to which a given number or expression is to be raised. in 3^2, 2 is an exponent. 3 is a base.

credential - information, proof of the identity or authorization of an entity (such as a user or a system).Include: username and password, API keys, certificates, tokens, biometric data.

microcosm - miniature containing characteristic features of something much larger.

fetch - go, get it and bring it back.

retrieve - get back, bring back; regain possession of.

veneer - thin layer of material applied over another to provide a decorative or protective finish.

to stash - to hide sth.

git stash -  to temporarily save changes (that are not ready to be committed) to a temporary storage, that can be retrieved later.

secret - kubernetes resource to store sensitive data as a key value pair in etcd. secrets can be read by cluster admins, namespace admins, users with RBAC permissions

RBAC - role based access controll.

Etcd - configuration data, metadata that needs to be shared among nodes in a distributed system. Name comes from etc(et cetera) folder where system configuration is stored (linux), d - distributed.



Secret (yaml):

apiVersion: v1

kind: Secret

metadata:

  name: example-secret

  namespace: mynamespace

type: Opaque

data:

  username: YWRtaW4=   # Base64-encoded "admin"

  password: cGFzc3dvcmQ=   # Base64-encoded "password"



RABC (yaml) :

apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1

kind: Role

metadata:

  name: secret-reader

  namespace: mynamespace

rules:

- apiGroups: [""]

  resources: ["secrets"]

  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]





 VDE - value delivery engine - agile combination of teams, that has a common goal. Has PI meeting every 10 weeks. Can be large group - VDE1 - "train". And can be medium group - VDE2 - "tram".

PI Planning - Program Increment Planning.

L&P - team: Lifecycle and Performance.


Jar hell - challenges arising from conflicts or compatibility issues between different versions of Java Archive (JAR) files, often encountered in projects with multiple dependencies.



intrusive - įkyrus, nepageidaujamas, keliantis trikdžius, trukdandtis

hub - central point, where things are executed

node - machine with individual instance

assess - evaluate/ estimaate quality of

mitigate - sumažinti/sušvelninti

substitution - replacement

verbose - using too many words

opinionated - having specific way of doing things. generaly - having strong inclination to a particular set of opinions, beliefs, or principles.

enhanced - strengthened

credibility - quality of being trusted

e.g. - exampli gratia - example, for sake of

integrity (of documents) -  quality of being accurate, complete, unaltered, untampered

tamper - make illegal or/and damaging alterations

seal - antspaudas, izoliacinis sluoksnis, patvirtinimas

dispatcher

overdue

remediation - fixing or mitigating of vulnerabilities

consonance - state of being in agreement

proprietary - belonging to company

facilitate meeting

efficacy

redundancy

facility - building

diligence -

due diligence

gateway - tarpuvartė, įėjimas

commissioning - bring (something newly produced, such as a factory or machine) into working condition. "we had a few hiccups getting the heating equipment commissioned"

DPIA - Data Protection Impact Assessment - process identifying and minimising risks of the processing of personal.

TDC - ??test data compliance

GCT - ??general compliance teseting

Build - entire process for execution - compiling source files, linking libraries, and packaging resources into a distributable format

Assemble - specific phase within the build process - collecting and combining individual components into larger units.

perteklinis - redundant, excess, surplus

legal person - legal personality, legal entity, juridical person

"Vague" refers to something that is not clearly defined, expressed, or stated

Defensive programming - ensuring that software behaves as expected even when encountering unexpected inputs or conditions. Input validation, Error handling, Robustness, Fail-safe defaults, Clear documentation

overlay - (web) - graphical element that is superimposed on top of another elements, typically to display additional content or provide a focused interaction area.

present() - method in fluentlenium that checkts if the element is there in the DOM.
pagination - sequence of numbers assigned to pages.

landing page - entry point for a particular section of a website. Promts a specific action from visitors, such as making a purchase, signing up for a newsletter, downloading a resource, or filling out a form.

to prompt - paskatinti, encourage (a hesitating speaker) to say something.

either

pivot

due dilligence

paradigm

cog wheel

PI planning
raft
